README.md, before:

# avalon

the fun party game where you kill merlin

    npm i

    expo start

if you don't have expo 

    npm i -g expo-cli
    
you need the Expo Client app to play

https://itunes.apple.com/app/apple-store/id982107779

https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=host.exp.exponent
    
## how to play

### basic rules

The players are split into two groups: Good Guys and Bad Guys. The Good Guys have one task: protect Merlin. The Bad Guys want Merlin dead.

The Bad Guys know who all of the bad guys are. The Good Guys don't know who anyone is.

Merlin needs three elixers to live. You get elixers by going on successful missions. There is only enough time to attempt five missions.

### gameplay

At the start of a round, a random player is selected as the mission leader. The mission leader gets to pick who goes on the mission; they can, but do not have to, include themselves. When they have selected who they want to go, they propose this party to everyone. If a majority of the players approve the party (by raising hands in unison), then the mission takes place. Otherwise, a new mission leader is selected.

When a mission is underway, every player on the mission gets to select whether they Pass or Fail the mission. It only takes one person failing a mission for the entire mission to fail. Remember, the Good Guys want the mission to pass, and the Bad Guys want the mission to fail.

Bad Guys can choose to pass or fail missions in an attempt to throw off the Good Guys. Good Guys cannot fail missions, even if they try.

### unique roles

In addition to the basic roles of "Good Guy" and "Bad Guy", there are four additional roles that will be assigned.

**Bad Guys**

- Assassin - If the Good Guys win, the Assassin gets one chance to kill Merlin. Choose wisely. Think of who knew a *little* too much.
- Maldova - A Bad Guy with a name, who looks an awful lot like Merlin. Percy knows you're either Merlin or Maldova; use this to throw them off.

**Good Guys**

- Merlin - Merlin must live. He is the only Good Guy who knows who the Bad Guys are. Use this knowledge wisely, but don't give away who you are.
- Percy - Percy knows who Merlin and Maldova are, but has no idea which is which. Try to figure it out quickly and influence group decisions.

### winning and losing

The Bad Guys win if three total missions get failed, _or_ if five mission proposals are rejected in a row.

The Good Guys win if three total missions get passed. However, if this happens, the Assassin has a chance to kill Merlin. If the Assassin chooses correctly, the Bad Guys win.

## known bugs

Cannot choose particular characters to play with

Oberon is missing

Cannot stop a game that has been started without closing the app

Commit message:

Lots of visual upgrades and rule changes. Android fix.

README.md, after:

# avalon

the fun party game where you kill merlin

to run locally, you need the Expo Client app on your phone; then, run these:

    npm i

    expo start

if you don't have expo 

    npm i -g expo-cli

## download links

Available on the Android Play Store!

https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.prestonandvictoriallc.avalon
    
## how to play

### basic rules

The players are split into two groups: Good Guys and Bad Guys. The Good Guys have one task: protect Merlin. The Bad Guys want Merlin dead.

The Bad Guys know who all of the bad guys are. The Good Guys don't know who anyone is.

Merlin needs three elixers to live. You get elixers by going on successful missions. There is only enough time to attempt five missions.

### gameplay

At the start of a round, a random player is selected as the mission leader. The mission leader gets to pick who goes on the mission; they can, but do not have to, include themselves. When they have selected who they want to go, they propose this party to everyone. If a majority of the players approve the party (by raising hands in unison), then the mission takes place. Otherwise, a new mission leader is selected.

When a mission is underway, every player on the mission gets to select whether they Pass or Fail the mission. It only takes one person failing a mission for the entire mission to fail. Remember, the Good Guys want the mission to pass, and the Bad Guys want the mission to fail.

Bad Guys can choose to pass or fail missions in an attempt to throw off the Good Guys. Good Guys cannot fail missions, even if they try.

### unique roles

In addition to the basic roles of "Good Guy" and "Bad Guy", there are four additional roles that will be assigned.

**Bad Guys**

- Assassin - If the Good Guys win, the Assassin gets one chance to kill Merlin. Choose wisely. Think of who knew a *little* too much.
- Morgana - A Bad Guy with a name, who looks an awful lot like Merlin. Percy knows you're either Merlin or Morgana; use this to throw them off.

**Good Guys**

- Merlin - Merlin must live. He is the only Good Guy who knows who the Bad Guys are. Use this knowledge wisely, but don't give away who you are.
- Percy - Percy knows who Merlin and Morgana are, but has no idea which is which. Try to figure it out quickly and influence group decisions.

### winning and losing

The Bad Guys win if three total missions get failed, _or_ if five mission proposals are rejected in a row.

The Good Guys win if three total missions get passed. However, if this happens, the Assassin has a chance to kill Merlin. If the Assassin chooses correctly, the Bad Guys win.

## known bugs

Cannot choose particular characters to play with

Oberon is missing

Cannot stop a game that has been started without closing the app
